RMF-184 Review YAML Schema page (#1956)
Axway/axway-open-docs: content/en/docs/apim_yamles/apim_yamles_references/yamles_yaml_schema.md

"linkTitle": "YAML Schema",
"weight":"80",
"date": "2020-09-25",
"description": "List of all valid syntax and data structures for YAML configuration files."
}

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}YAML entity store files do not support YAML anchors.{{% /alert %}}

## Versioning

> The schema version of YAML Entity Store is the major version (M) of the jar file located in `%VINST%/apigateway/system/lib/plugins/yaml-entity-store-M.m.p.jar`. You can also find the version in your YAML configuration files in `META-INF/_version.yaml`.

Author: (The schema version of YAML Entity Store is the major version) -> Are there other versions of the jar in the folder? because if not, this explanation about the M version is unnecessary. Just say the the major version (M) is available from....

Reviewer: The major version is important for future upgrade, if it changes then a specific upgrade step is required, but as it is the first version... my original intent was that this chapter is repeated every time we release a new schema hence a new major version. So client having version 1 (because they use May release) would refer to this document and version 2 refer to a new document, august release is likely to have a new schema ... TBC.

#### Absolute reference

An absolute reference starts at the root entity and go through all nodes of the hierarchy.

Examples:

```
/System/Filter Categories/miscellaneous
```

```
/System/Namespace Configuration/http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2002/12/secext
```

```
/Policies/(CircuitContainer)Main App
```

This example implies that there is another entity with the same name (Main App) at the same hierarchal level with a different type. In this example the other entity would be: `/Policies/(FilterCircuit)Main App`.

#### Relative reference

A reference that points to an entity in the same file can be written as a relative reference:

Child reference:

```
./[(Type)]keyFields
```

Sibling reference:

```
../[(Type)]keyFields
```

Cousin reference:

```
../../[(Type)]keyFields/[(Type)]keyFields
```

#### Selector reference

A reference can also be a selector. For more information, see [Selector syntax](/docs/apim_policydev/apigw_poldev/general_selector/#selector-syntax).

#### Null reference

`/null` is a reference that points to *no entity*, but remains a valid reference. `/null` is different from `null`, which represents *no value*.

### Placeholders syntax

> A placeholder starts with `{{` and ends with `}}`. Leading and trailing spaces are allowed but they are removed during the export task. It must be surrounded by single quotation marks `'` if the value of the field starts with a placeholder.

Author: (It must be surrounded by single quotation marks...) -> Confusing. Do you mean "Placeholders must be surrounded by single quotation marks if the value of the field starts with a placeholder" ?? Still confusing anyway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A placeholder starts with `{{` and ends with `}}`. Leading and trailing spaces are allowed but they are removed during the export task. Placeholder must be surrounded by single quotation marks `'` only if the value of the field value starts with a placeholder.
```

The following values are not allowed at the *beginning* of a placeholder:

* `null`
* `true`
* `false`
* `undefined`
* All digits

#### File

The `file` placeholder reads a file to populate a field.

Syntax:

```
{{file "location" ["pem"|"binary"]}}
```

* `location`: The locations are relative to the YAML entity file they are declared in. In case the value of the location is relative, the file must exist, otherwise an error is shown. When value of the location is absolute, the `import` and `upgrade` CLI options can support missing absolutes files as their location might only exist at runtime. But, an error is shown if a file does not exist at deployment time in API Gateway.
* `pem`: For base64 encoded files containing certificate (or key) PEM headers and footers (`----- BEGIN CERTIFICATE -----`, `----- END PRIVATE KEY -----`...)
* `binary`: If the file is a binary file that ought to be encoded in base64, it corresponds to `binary` type fields.

#### base64

The `base64` placeholder encodes a token in base64.

Syntax:

```
{{base64 "token to encode"}}
```

#### env

> The `env` placeholder reads an environment variable and then a JVM property, if the environment variable does not exist. In any case, if the variable is not found, `env` reads the variable name in lowercase. If it does not find a value for the environment variable or the JVM property, an `invalid field` string is returned, unless a default value is provided.

Author: (if the variable is not found, `env` reads the variable name in lowercase) -> is this accurate ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `env` placeholder reads an environment variable and then a JVM property, if the environment variable does not exist. In any case, if the variable is not found, `env` try again to read the variable but in lowercase this time. If it does not find a value for the environment variable or the JVM property, an `invalid field` string is returned, unless a default value is provided.
```

[abstract: true]             # false by default
```

The `pk` (a YamlPK key) is formatted as such for default values and is somehow a `reference`. `keyFields` and `Type` tokens are already defined for `reference`.

```

> /Top-level-Folder/(Type)keyFields[/(Type)keyFields]*

Author: This is an example of what?

Reviewer: This is not an example but the construct of a `pk` maybe the "code" section needs an introduction sentence. Such as "this is the format of a `pk`"

```

> In a `reference` syntax, the `type` is generally not specified, with these it is mandatory and therefor `pk` are parsable.

Author: (`type` is generally not specified, **with these** it is mandatory) -> **with these** what?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a `reference` syntax, the `type` is generally not specified, in Entity Type files (Type) it is mandatory. As a result `pk` are parsable.
```

> Examples of `reference` syntaxes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of `pk` syntaxes:
```
